docs: document how to reclaim space in pgsql db (#165)
phasehq/docs: src/pages/self-hosting/maintenance/index.mdx

![Graph showing log deletion performance on AWS RDS](/assets/images/self-hosting/maintenance/rds-log-delete-graph.png)

### Reclaiming Disk Space

<Note>

> To fully realize performance benefits and reclaim disk space, you will need to run `VACUUM` on the database after purging the logs. See [PostgreSQL documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-vacuum.html) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reclaim disk space, you will need to run `VACUUM` on the database after purging the logs. See [PostgreSQL documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-vacuum.html) for more information.
```

  pg_size_pretty(pg_total_relation_size('api_secretevent')) AS total;
```

Example output:

```fish
 table_data | indexes | total 
------------+---------+-------
 8334 MB    | 2393 MB | 10 GB
```

As you can see, the table is **10GB** and has 8.3GB of data.

4. Check for dead tuples (rows) in the table that can be removed:

```sql
SELECT relname,
       n_live_tup,
       n_dead_tup,
       last_vacuum,
       last_autovacuum,
       last_analyze,
       last_autoanalyze
FROM pg_stat_user_tables
WHERE relname = 'api_secretevent';
```

Example output:
```fish
     relname     | n_live_tup | n_dead_tup | last_vacuum |        last_autovacuum        | last_analyze |       last_autoanalyze        
-----------------+------------+------------+-------------+-------------------------------+--------------+-------------------------------
 api_secretevent |    1433160 |      16660 |             | 2025-05-18 04:02:32.280993+00 |              | 2025-05-19 09:05:24.915207+00

# 1,433,160 rows are live and 16,660 rows ☝️ are dead, ready to be removed
```

5. Run the standard vacuum command:

```sql
VACUUM VERBOSE api_secretevent;
```

> This will remove the dead rows and reclaim the space for future use. Depending on your table size, this operation can take anywhere from a few seconds to several minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will remove the dead tuples and reclaim the space for future use within postgres. Depending on your table size, this operation can take anywhere from a few seconds to several minutes, but is safe to run in parallel with regular operation.
```
From the [postgres docs](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-vacuum.html):
> Plain VACUUM (without FULL) simply reclaims space and makes it available for re-use. This form of the command can operate in parallel with normal reading and writing of the table, as an exclusive lock is not obtained. However, extra space is not returned to the operating system (in most cases); it's just kept available for re-use within the same table.

6. Verify the space has been reclaimed:

```sql
SELECT relname,
       n_live_tup,
       n_dead_tup,
       last_vacuum,
       last_autovacuum,
       last_analyze,
       last_autoanalyze
FROM pg_stat_user_tables
WHERE relname = 'api_secretevent';
```

After vacuuming, the `n_dead_tup` count should be significantly reduced or zero.

```fish
     relname     | n_live_tup | n_dead_tup | last_vacuum |        last_autovacuum        | last_analyze |       last_autoanalyze        
-----------------+------------+------------+-------------+-------------------------------+--------------+-------------------------------
 api_secretevent |    1433160 |      0     |             | 2025-05-18 04:02:32.280993+00 |              | 2025-05-19 09:05:24.915207+00
# 1,433,160 rows are live and 0 ☝️ rows are dead
```

7. **Optional**: For more aggressive space reclamation, you can use `VACUUM FULL`:

> <Warning>
> `VACUUM FULL` will lock your table, preventing writes to the `api_secretevent` table and significantly degrading read performance. During this period you will not be able to create secrets in Phase Console, CLI, SDKs or the API. Only run this command during maintenance windows when minimal activity is expected.
> </Warning>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Warning>
`VACUUM FULL` will place an `ACCESS EXCLUSIVE` lock on your table, preventing reads and writes to the `api_secretevent` table. Only run this command during maintenance windows as you will not be able to access, create or update secrets when this is running.

This method also requires extra disk space, since it writes a new copy of the table and doesn't release the old copy until the operation is complete.
</Warning>
```
